Add extra.plugin-optional to auto-disable plugins in non-interactive mode (#11315)
composer/composer: doc/articles/plugins.md

as possible to prevent any bad side-effects from Composer assuming packages are installed
in another location than they actually are.

### plugin-optional

> Because composer plugins can be used to install modules in the right place e.g. for Drupal,
> Wordpress, etc. not running them can result in broken applications. That's why, in non-interactive
> mode, Composer will fail if a plugin is not listed in ["allow-plugins"](../06-config.md#allow-plugins).
> 
> As of Composer 2.5.3, you can opt-out from this error by setting `{"extra": {"plugin-optional": true}}`.
> In non-interactive mode, this will allow Composer to skip your plugin if it's not listed in "allow-plugins".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Composer plugins can be used to perform actions which are necessary for installing a working application, like modifying which path files get stored in. So skipping required plugins unintentionally can result in broken applications. So, in non-interactive
mode, Composer will fail if a new plugin is not listed in ["allow-plugins"](../06-config.md#allow-plugins) to force users to decide if they want to execute the plugin, but to avoid silent failure.

As of Composer 2.5.3, you can use the setting `{"extra": {"plugin-optional": true}}` on your plugin, to tell Composer that skipping the plugin has no catastrophic consequences, and it can safely be disabled in non-interactive mode if it is not yet listed in "allow-plugins". The next interactive run of Composer will still prompt users to choose if they want to enable or disable the plugin.
```

Author: updated, thanks!
